# River-utils
:::info
`river-utils` is a versatile Command-Line Interface (CLI) tool designed to streamline bioinformatics workflows, HPC job management, and cloud storage setup. This tool provides commands to manage cloud configurations, job scripts, and setup utilities.
:::
## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.8 or higher
- AWS credentials configured locally (for cloud commands)
- Required system utilities: wget, curl

### Development Version
To install the development version, use the following commands for x64. For other CPU architectures, follow [these instructions](https://mamba.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation/micromamba-installation.html):
```bash
# Adjust the installation path for micromamba
git clone https://github.com/riverxdata/river-utils.git -b dev
cd river-utils 
bash base.sh
make build
pip install -e .
```

### Latest Version
To install the latest stable version, use the following command. Besides the Python package, it offers several useful software tools:
- **aws**: The AWS client to interact with AWS services or AWS-compatible services
- **singularity**: A container engine suitable for root-less environments
- **r-base (4.4.0)**: The R environment for AWS-related tasks
- **python (3.9.21)**: The Python environment
- **zsh**: A shell with plugins to enhance performance when working with Unix

**Note**: This will install micromamba, create an environment called `river`, and install the above software without restricting versions.
```bash
version="add_awscli_zsh"
bash <(curl -Ls https://raw.githubusercontent.com/riverxdata/river-utils/${version}/install/setup.sh) $HOME $version
source ~/.river.sh
```

## Usage
### Overview
The `river-utils` CLI consists of three main subcommands:

- **cloud**: Manage AWS S3 configurations and mount buckets using **Goofys**. Note that the current AWS CLI does not support region.
- **job**: Manage and generate job scripts for HPC systems and the River web server.
- **setup**: Set up standard tools for bioinformatics analysis.

### 1. Storage
The `cloud` command is used to configure and manage S3 buckets with Goofys.

#### Subcommands:
- **s3-config**: Add a new AWS profile to your local configuration.
```bash
cloud s3-config --profile-name PROFILE_NAME --region REGION --aws-access-key-id AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID --aws-secret-access-key AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
```

### 2. Slurm job monitoring
The `job` command is used for managing HPC job scripts and information.

#### Subcommands:
- **create**: Generate a job script based on a provided Git repository and version.
- **info**: Fetch and display information about jobs.
```bash
job create --job-id JOB_ID
job config --job-id JOB_ID
job info JOB_UUIDS
```

To load micromamba and the river command line tool with these setups, run the following command or add it to your `.bashrc`:
```bash
source ~/.river.sh
```

### License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.
